{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf340
\cocoascreenfonts1{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 CourierNewPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww17420\viewh19960\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Follow these steps to create a Core Plot release and post it to Google Code:\
\
1. Ensure the following tools are installed on your development machine:\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}Xcode 4\
{\listtext	\'95	}Doxygen, version 1.7.4 or later ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.stack.nl/~dimitri/doxygen/download.html#latestsrc"}}{\fldrslt http://www.stack.nl/~dimitri/doxygen/download.html#latestsrc}}), installed in 
\f1 /Applications
\f0 \
{\listtext	\'95	}Graphviz, version 2.28.0 or later ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.graphviz.org/Download_macos.php"}}{\fldrslt http://www.graphviz.org/Download_macos.php}})\
\pard\tx560\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
2. Ensure the change log (
\f1 documentation/changelog.txt
\f0 ) is up-to-date and committed to the Mercurial repository.\
\
3. Using Mercurial, ensure your local Core Plot source directory is in sync with the public repository on Google Code.\
\
4. Open the Terminal application and 
\f1 cd
\f0  to the root directory of your local Core Plot source directory.\
\
5. Tag the current revision with the release version:\
\

\f1 $ hg tag release_<version>\

\f0 \
where 
\f1 <version>
\f0  is the version number for this release.\
\
6. Change to the 
\f1 scripts
\f0  folder:\
\

\f1 $ cd scripts\

\f0 \
7. Run the 
\f1 createrelease
\f0  script:\
\

\f1 $ python createrelease.py <version>
\f0 \
\
8. Review the messages printed in the Terminal window and verify that all build steps succeeded.\
\
9. The release products were placed in a folder called 
\f1 CorePlot_<version>
\f0  and placed on your desktop. Open this folder and verify that the following subfolders and files are present:\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}
\f1 Binaries/iOS/\
{\listtext	\'95	}Binaries/MacOS/\
{\listtext	\'95	}Documentation/\
{\listtext	\'95	}READMEs/\
{\listtext	\'95	}Source/\
{\listtext	\'95	}License.txt\
\pard\tx560\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0 \cf0 \
10. Right-click the release folder on your desktop and select 
\b Compress "<filename>"
\b0  from the menu.\
\
11. Log into Google Code and navigate to the Core Plot downloads page: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://code.google.com/p/core-plot/downloads/list"}}{\fldrslt http://code.google.com/p/core-plot/downloads/list}}.\
\
12. Click 
\b New Download
\b0 .\
\
13. Enter the following:\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}
\b Summary
\b0 : 
\i Core Plot Release <version>
\i0 \
{\listtext	\'95	}
\b File
\b0 : click 
\b Choose File
\b0  and select the Core Plot zip file on your desktop\
{\listtext	\'95	}
\b Labels
\b0 : 
\i Featured
\i0  and 
\i Type-Archive
\i0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
14. Click 
\b Submit file
\b0 .\
\
15. Find the previous release packages on the Downloads page and remove the 
\i Featured
\i0  label.\
\
16. On the Administer tab, edit the description for the project home page. Duplicate the previous numbered release section and change the links to point to the new release. The releases should be listed in descending order with "Latest" on top. Each numbered release heading should be followed by links to the following pages:\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural
\ls4\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}Download\
{\listtext	\'95	}Browse Source\
{\listtext	\'95	}OS X Docs\
{\listtext	\'95	}iOS Docs\
}